# PBMGA
## Python Bone Material Grouping and Anisotropy
## Content
This is the code to the Publication in ???
## Short Description
This Python file is designed to ease the usage of non-linear and anisotropic material models for CT-Mapped Material properties.
To assess the mechanical properties of bone the Finite Element Method has been proven to provide valuable insights. 
Mapping patient-specific material properties from medical images to FE Meshes is a critical step to account for the uniqueness of each patient.
Different software tools like Bonemat or SimpleWare ScanIP exist to map image intensities from CT-Scans to FE Meshes. Bonemat for example allows for the calculation of HU based Youngs Modulus via different linear or power equations and the setting of a constant Poissons ratio, together with a grouping threshold.
Different studies in literature have shown the anisotropic behavior of bone tissue. Further to for example assess the fracture load of bones material non-linearity or yield criterias are needed. 
This software tool eliminates the need to manually add those properties in Abaqus by recalculating the HU units based on user specified equations and enables automatic calculation of non-linearity and anisotropy. 

## Software Version
The code has been developed in Python 3.11 and tested with Abaqus INP files generated by Bonemat V3.2

## Citation
If you use this code for your research please cite the following papers:

## Funding 
This research was kindly supported by the Aarhus University Research Foundation under Grant Number: AUFF-E-2022-7-12 